__TOC__
The CMM colormatching module is the "engine" for color conversions in applications.

In Open Source applications, LittleCMS is the most used CMM. Other widely used CMMs are the AppleCMM in MacOSX, the [http://labs.adobe.com/downloads/cmm.html AdobeCMM] and the CMM delivered with Windows XP.

== Open Source Implementations ==

==== Argyll ====
* http://www.argyllcms.com/
* Local, [[Argyll Community Documentation]]
License: new BSD? for the CMM module called libicc

==== LittleCMS ====
*http://www.littlecms.com/

License: MIT

==== SampleICC ====
* http://sampleicc.sourceforge.net/ — The ICC's official sample implementation.

License: 4 clause BSD [http://www.fsf.org/licensing/licenses/index_html#OriginalBSD (not very handy for distribution)]

==== GCMS ====
*an historical CMM effort: http://www.gcms.coloraid.de/

==== CTL ====
*http://sourceforge.net/projects/ampasctl - Ilm's effort to handle floating point colours precisely and according to the needs in the [http://www.oscars.org/council/ctl.html film industry].

License: [http://savannah.gnu.org/task/?6171 modified] [http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php new BSD] (? with jurisdiction to California)
...

==== OpenGTL ====
* http://opengtl.org/ - The G of GTL means either Graphics or Generics, the T means Transformation and the L means Libraries or Languages. The C++ libraries are created by Cyrille Berger.

Currently the focus is on developing two languages, designed for two different implementations.
* OpenCTL which is a GPL compatible of the Color Transformation Language, this language is dedicated at transforming the value of a single pixel (for instance Brightness adjustement or desaturate). CTL is designed to be part of the Color Management process.
* OpenShiva is inspired by Adobe's Hydra language from the AIF Toolkit, Shiva is a language that apply a kernel-like transformations on an image, that means it works using more than one pixel.

License: LGPL


== Profiler ==
==== ArgyllCMS ====
* [http://www.digifab.com/ArgyllCMSGUI/ ArgyllCMSGUI] a GUI for some Argyll's command line tools
* [http://x3.ntf.uni-lj.si/~gojc/Argyll CMS/ Argyll CMS] a Argyll command line resampler
* [http://hoech.net/dispcalGUI/ dispcalGUI] a display profiler
* [http://colorhacks.blogspot.com/ Stefan's review] of ArgyllCMSGUI, "Argyll CMS" and dispcalGUI : [09:57, 27 Aug 2008 (CEST)]

License: GPL

==== LProf ====
[http://lprof.sourceforge.net/ LProf] a scanner and display profiler

License: GPL


[[Category:Programms]]