{| style="width:100%;text-align:left"
|+
! style="background:#efefef;text-align:left" colspan="4" | Revision History
|-
| [http://www.burtonini.com/computing/x-icc-profiles-spec-0.1.html Revision 0.1]
| 2005-06-24 
| Ross Burton
| Initial release. Thanks to Craig Ringer, Jim Gettys, Kai-Uwe Behrmann, and Matthew Allum for feedback.
|-
| Revision 0.2
| 2006-05-03 
| Kai-Uwe Behrmann
|-
|}



== Introduction ==

This is a specification for associating ICC colour profiles with X screens. With this specification applications can obtain the appropriate display profile for the screen they are on, and apply colour correction to any images which are being shown to the user.

== Specification ==

Currently there is only one atom base name defined.

== _ICC_PROFILE ==

The atom name for the first screen in a root window is _ICC_Profile.

For root windows spanning more than one screen, as typical in Xinerama 
multihead configurations, a atom for each screen is added holding the 
appropriate ICC profile. All screens in a root window starting from 
number one use _ICC_Profile as atom name extended with an underscore plus 
the screen number, e.g. _ICC_Profile_1 .

The atoms are of type <span class="type">XA_CARDINAL</span> with 8-bit
elements. The value of the atom should be a literal ICC profile, that
applications can read and parse directly.

This property does not have to be set on every screen.  When this
property is not set on a screen, the screen is uncalibrated, and no
colour correction for display should be done.

As profiles can be large applications should read the profile for a
particular screen once, and cache it.  As a screen's profile may change
during the lifetime of the progress, applications should ask to receive
property change notifications from the root window, even if they don't
currently have a profile set.  Applications which can change screens
using mechanisms such as display migration should be aware that the new
screen is likely to have a different profile.

== References ==
 
1. [http://www.color.org International Color Consortium]

2. [http://www.burtonini.com/computing/x-icc-profiles-spec-0.1.html Revision 0.1 of this specification]


2006 &copy; Kai-Uwe Behrmann



[[Oyranos|back --> Oyranos]]

[[Category:Oyranos]]
[[Category:Standards]]