<h1> DRAFT </h1>

{| style="width:100%;text-align:left;vertical-align:text-top"
|+
! style="background:#efefef;text-align:left" colspan="4" | Revision History
|- style="text-align:left;vertical-align:text-top"
| [http://www.burtonini.com/computing/x-icc-profiles-spec-0.1.html Revision 0.1]
| 2005-06-24
| Ross Burton
| Initial release. Thanks to Craig Ringer, Jim Gettys, Kai-Uwe Behrmann, and Matthew Allum for feedback.
|- style="text-align:left;vertical-align:text-top"
| [http://www.burtonini.com/computing/x-icc-profiles-spec-0.2.html Revision 0.2]
| 2006-05-03
| Kai-Uwe Behrmann
| Specify how to handle Xinerama setups.
|- style="text-align:left;vertical-align:text-top"
| [http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/OpenIcc/ICC_Profiles_in_X_Specification_0.3 Revision 0.3]
| 2008-04-24
| Kai-Uwe Behrmann
| Clearify terminology suggested Hal V. Engel, Jon A. Cruz, sRGB default by<br>Craig Ringer and corrections by Kai-Uwe Behrmann; case corrections by Graeme Gill
|- style="text-align:left;vertical-align:text-top"
| Draft 1 for Revision 0.4
| 2008-01-08
| Kai-Uwe Behrmann
| Xrandr
|- style="text-align:left;vertical-align:text-top"
| Draft 2 for Revision 0.4
| 2010-03-04
| Kai-Uwe Behrmann
| late colour binding
|-
|}



== Introduction ==

This is a specification for associating ICC colour profiles with X monitors.
With this specification applications and services can obtain the appropriate
display profile for the monitor they are interessted in, and apply colour
correction to any images, which are being shown to the user.

== Specification ==

The _ICC_PROFILE base name contains the literal ICC colour profile. A atom with
name _ICC_PROFILE_IN_X_VERSION tells about awareness of the setting application
or service. The _ICC_PROFILE_SETUP_LOCK atom is intented for locking in dynamic
changing environments, especially for the setup application or service. The
_ICC_PROFILE_SETUP atom allowes for finding out whether a configuration is up
to date.

== _ICC_PROFILE ==

The atom name for the first monitor in a root window is _ICC_PROFILE.

For root windows spanning more than one monitor, as typical in Xinerama and XRandR
multihead configurations, a atom for each monitor is added holding the
appropriate ICC profile. The first monitor uses the _ICC_PROFILE atom name.
All monitors in a root window starting from
number one use _ICC_PROFILE as atom name extended with an underscore plus
the monitor number, e.g. _ICC_PROFILE_1 . Monitor counting starts with zero.
Thus a _ICC_PROFILE_0 atom should not appear.

The atoms are of type <span class="type">XA_CARDINAL</span> with 8-bit
elements. The value of the atom should be a literal ICC profile, that
applications can read and parse directly.

This property does not have to be set on every monitor.  When this
property is not set for a monitor, this monitor is uncharacterised, and
colour correction for this monitor should be done using the sRGB colour space.

As profiles can be large, applications should read the profile for a
particular screen once, and cache it. As a screen's profile may change
during the lifetime of the process, applications should ask to receive
property change notifications from the root window, even if they don't
currently have a profile set. Applications which can change screens
using mechanisms such as display migration should be aware that the new
screen is likely to have different profiles assigned to monitors.

The meaning of the _ICC_PROFILE(_xxx) atom(s) is that of a simple target colour
space. If your application renders to that space it should be fine. However In
situations with a server side colour correction that ICC profile might represent
sRGB as the systems target colour space.

== _ICC_DEVICE_PROFILE ==

To do early colour binding and sending unaltered colour numbers to the device,
the application must mark the document region with the Xcolor library and assign 
no profile to that region. To colour correct the numbers the application needs
to check for a _ICC_DEVICE_PROFILE(_xxx). The counting is the same as for
_ICC_PROFILE(_xxx).

A colour server, the service, which does converts the given numbers of a
document to the numbers of the screen has to switch the ICC profile atoms.
It copies in start the _ICC_PROFILE(_xxx) into the according
_ICC_DEVICE_PROFILE(_xxx) atoms and sets the _ICC_PROFILE(_xxx) to the target
document space, which will typical be a sRGB ICC profile. If a given colour 
region has no profile assigned then this region is not
touched and considered to be prematched to the device colour space. For all
areas without a Xcolor region the colour service assumes the colour space of
the _ICC_PROFILE(_xxx) as source.

* Xcolor region no ICC profile ==> ignore
* no Xcolor region marked : convert _ICC_PROFILE(_xxx) -> _ICC_DEVICE_PROFILE(_xxx)

== _ICC_PROFILE_IN_X_VERSION ==

The _ICC_PROFILE_IN_X_VERSION atom specifies the version of this specification applied.
To simplify parsing the minor revision number is multiplied by 1 plus the major number by 100.
So for example revision 0.3 would result in:<br>
0*100 + 3*1 => 3 <br/>
The atom should be stored as ascii text of type <span class="type">XA_CARDINAL</span>
with 8-bit elements.

== _ICC_PROFILE_SETUP_LOCK ==

A application or service, which is able to setup the _ICC_PROFILE atom(s),
may obtain notification for a server configuration change, e.g. after
dynamically connecting a new monitor. Then this service can try to evaluate the
configuration and update appropriately.
First a lock has to be set with the atom name _ICC_PROFILE_SETUP_LOCK. The
content of this atom should contain the actual service PID and time() value.
The string value should be:<br/>
"pid:time", e.g. "293:1231432919".<br/>
The atom should be stored as ascii text of type <span class="type">XA_CARDINAL</span>
with 8-bit elements.<br/>
After the X server is configured again the _ICC_PROFILE_SETUP_LOCK should be
removed by the the locking service.

== _ICC_PROFILE_SETUP ==

The atom with name _ICC_PROFILE_SETUP should be set by the configuring service. The
content of this atom should contain the actual service PID and XRRTimes value.
The string value should be:<br/>
"pid:servertime", e.g. "293:7148917".<br/>
The atom should be stored as ascii text of type <span class="type">XA_CARDINAL</span>
with 8-bit elements.

 How does a client know that a configuration is invalid? regular check every 10 seconds?

== References ==

1. [http://www.color.org International Color Consortium]

2. [http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Specifications/icc_profiles_in_x_spec central specification host] @ freedesktop.org

3. net-color spec ''git clone git://www.oyranos.org/git/xcolor'' in xcolor/docs/net-color-spec

2005 &copy; Ross Burton; 2006-2009 &copy; Kai-Uwe Behrmann



[[Oyranos|back --> Oyranos]] or [[Oyranos X11 Requirements]]

[[Category:Oyranos]]
[[Category:Standards]]