[http://www.oyranos.org/wiki/index.php?title=ICC_Profiles_in_X_Specification_0.2 Go to the version 0.2 of the ICC Profiles in X Specification]

The original specification is found on Ross Burtons side: [http://www.burtonini.com/computing/x-icc-profiles-spec-0.1.html ICC Profiles In X Specification].

Here you find a modified version of the above. The below text is just a proposal.


=== _ICC_PROFILE ===

The atom name for the first screen in a root window is _ICC_Profile.

For root windows spanning more than one screen, as typical in Xinerama 
multihead configurations, a atom for each screen is added holding the 
appropriate ICC profile. All screens in a root window starting from 
number one use _ICC_Profile as atom name extended with an underscore plus 
the screen number, e.g. _ICC_Profile_1 .

The atoms are of type <span class="type">XA_CARDINAL</span> with 8-bit
elements. The value of the atom should be a literal ICC profile, that
applications can read and parse directly.

This property does not have to be set on every screen.  When this
property is not set on a screen, the screen is uncalibrated, and no
colour correction for display should be done.

As profiles can be large applications should read the profile for a
particular screen once, and cache it.  As a screen's profile may change
during the lifetime of the progress, applications should ask to receive
property change notifications from the root window, even if they don't
currently have a profile set.  Applications which can change screens
using mechanisms such as display migration should be aware that the new
screen is likely to have a different profile.


[[Oyranos|--> back to Oyranos wiki]]

[[Category:Oyranos]]