<h1> DRAFT </h1>

{| style="width:100%;text-align:left;vertical-align:text-top"
|+
! style="background:#efefef;text-align:left" colspan="4" | Revision History
|- style="text-align:left;vertical-align:text-top"
| [http://www.burtonini.com/computing/x-icc-profiles-spec-0.1.html Revision 0.1]
| 2005-06-24 
| Ross Burton
| Initial release. Thanks to Craig Ringer, Jim Gettys, Kai-Uwe Behrmann, and Matthew Allum for feedback.
|- style="text-align:left;vertical-align:text-top"
| [http://www.burtonini.com/computing/x-icc-profiles-spec-0.2.html Revision 0.2]
| 2006-05-03 
| Kai-Uwe Behrmann
| Specify how to handle Xinerama setups.
|- style="text-align:left;vertical-align:text-top" 
| Draft 1 for Revision 0.3
| 2007-11-15 
| Kai-Uwe Behrmann
| Clearify terminology suggested Hal V. Engel, Jon A. Cruz, sRGB default by<br>Craig Ringer and corrections by Kai-Uwe Behrmann
|- style="text-align:left;vertical-align:text-top" 
| Draft 2 for Revision 0.3
| 2008-04-23
| Kai-Uwe Behrmann
| case corrections by Graeme Gill
|-
|}



== Introduction ==

This is a specification for associating ICC colour profiles with X monitors. With this specification applications can obtain the appropriate display profile for the monitor they are interessted in, and apply colour correction to any images, which are being shown to the user.

== Specification ==

Currently there is only one atom base name defined.

== _ICC_PROFILE ==

The atom name for the first monitor in a root window is _ICC_PROFILE.

For root windows spanning more than one monitor, as typical in Xinerama 
multihead configurations, a atom for each monitor is added holding the 
appropriate ICC profile. The first monitor uses the _ICC_PROFILE atom name. 
All monitors in a root window starting from 
number one use _ICC_PROFILE as atom name extended with an underscore plus 
the monitor number, e.g. _ICC_PROFILE_1 . Monitor counting starts with zero.
Thus a _ICC_PROFILE_0 atom should not appear.

The atoms are of type <span class="type">XA_CARDINAL</span> with 8-bit
elements. The value of the atom should be a literal ICC profile, that
applications can read and parse directly.

This property does not have to be set on every monitor.  When this
property is not set for a monitor, this monitor is uncharacterised, and
colour correction for this monitor should be done using the sRGB colour space.

As profiles can be large, applications should read the profile for a
particular screen once, and cache it. As a screen's profile may change
during the lifetime of the process, applications should ask to receive
property change notifications from the root window, even if they don't
currently have a profile set. Applications which can change screens
using mechanisms such as display migration should be aware that the new
screen is likely to have different profiles assigned to monitors.

== _ICC_PROFILE_IN_X_VERSION ==

The _ICC_PROFILE_IN_X_VERSION atom specifies the version of this specification applied.
To simplify parsing the minor revision number is multiplied by 1 plus the major number by 100.
So for example revision 0.3 would result in:<br>
0*100 + 3*1 => 3

== References ==
 
1. [http://www.color.org International Color Consortium]

2. [http://www.burtonini.com/computing/x-icc-profiles-spec-latest.html Ross Burtons page]

2005 &copy; Ross Burton; 2006-2008 &copy; Kai-Uwe Behrmann



[[Oyranos|back --> Oyranos]] or [[Oyranos X11 Requirements]]

[[Category:Oyranos]]
[[Category:Standards]]