<h1>[http://www.behrmann.name/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=32&Itemid=70 ICC Examin]</h1>


== Stable Versions ==

ICC Examin is known to work on Linux, BSD, osX and Solaris. Windows will currently not work.

=== Sources ===

[http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=177017&package_id=247078 Sources] @ SourceForge

[http://www.behrmann.name/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=33 Elder Downloads] are available from the behrmann site.

==== Dependencies ====

ICC Examin depends on following libraries and external applications:

* FLTK version <= 1.1.4 neede to build the GUI (needed by FLU as well). You may configure FLTK with several options enabled:
    --enable-threads is needed for threads support (in ICC Examin)
    --enable-xft is ok for antialiased fonts
    --enable-debug is generally a good choice
    --enable-shared is sometimes a good choice for smaller executables
* [[Oyranos/Download|Oyranos]] CMS
* FTGL


==== Compile Instructions ====

For building unpack the tgz file and type #configure; make; make install.
Optionally you can specifiy an other than the default prefix /opt/local by typing:

    configure --prefix=/what/you/like
    make
    make install       # (optionally)

    configure --help   # will show details
    make help          # shows the available targets

Detailed build instructions are as well included in the packages.

=== Binary Packages ===

==== openSUSE build server ====

[http://www.oyranos.org/wiki/index.php?title=Oyranos/Download#openSUSE_build_server openSUSE build service] for Linux binary packages

==== osX ====
[http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=177017&package_id=247078 disk image] http://www.behrmann.name/images/cms/dmg_64.png

== Development Versions ==

[[Oyranos/git|Git]]: The actual development version can be obtained through git. Instructions on how to obtain the code and how to build, can be found on the Oyranos Wiki page [[Oyranos/git]]. There is as well a build script available for automated dependency checking, downloading and building.

[http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=177017 Snapshots and release candidates] are available from the SourceForge site. They are released non regularily. The packages contain sources and all datas.


[[Oyranos|back -> Oyranos]]
[[Category:Oyranos]]