== Monitor property control ==

Modern monitors contain lots of control functionality. They interfere with a proper calibration. So it is for some users useful to set them to a state which corresponds to a certain ICC profile or disable such settings at all. 

If the properties are simple, they may be set to good defaults before calibrating such a display device. Some monitors provide higher than 8-bit per pixel LUT's, sometimes even for each colour channel. In this case it is more promising to calibrate these LUT's directly and leave the graphic cards LUT untouched. This help in providing more of the 256 steps possibly with todays VGA busses.

Possibly controls are brightness, contrast, monitor and grafic card LUT's, auto adjustment features ...

Candidates for holding a according API are Xorg or HAL. Work is already done in the ddccontrol project. Of course Xorg includes i2c capabilities, which is under [http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/xorg/2007-August/027105.html discussion] to expose as a library (in RandR).
The communication with a monitor can happen eigther over [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Display_Data_Channel DDC/CI] or a separate UBS cable.

=== References ===

* [http://www.usb.org/developers/hidpage/ Monitor Device Class Definition] specification at usb.org

* [http://www.i2c-bus.org/ i2c] specification

* [http://ddccontrol.sourceforge.net/ ddccontrol] open source project

* [http://www.technocage.com/~caskey/acdctl Apple Cinema Display control] open source project

* [[Oyranos X11 Requirements]]

* [[Oyranos#Information_about_X_and_CM]] links

* [http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Specifications Specifications] list at freedesktop.org

----

* [http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/xorg/2007-August/027469.html XV calibration thread] Graemes response at fd.o

* [http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/openicc/2005q1/000094.html Xcalib thread] at the OpenICC list about calibration paths

[[Category:Concepts]]