<h1> DRAFT </h1>

{| style="width:100%;text-align:left;vertical-align:text-top"
|+
! style="background:#efefef;text-align:left" colspan="4" | Revision History
|- style="text-align:left;vertical-align:text-top"
| [http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/openicc/2008q2/001615.html ucmm]
| 2008-05-14
| Graeme Gill
| Initial proposal for ArgyllCMS
|
|- style="text-align:left;vertical-align:text-top"
| [http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/openicc/2010q4/002293.html ICC meta Tag for Monitor Profiles - DRAFT 3]
| 2010-12-01
| Kai-Uwe Behrmann, Richard Hughes, Max Derhack, Lars Borg and others
| EDID keys for ICC meta tag
|- style="text-align:left;vertical-align:text-top"
| OpenICC Configuration - 1.0 DRAFT 1
| 2011-11-24
| Kai-Uwe Behrmann, Sebastian Oliva, Richard Hughes
| Oyranos and Taxi DB format
|-
|}



== Introduction ==

The OpenICC Configuration, in the following text simply named Configuration, is intended to share common configuration properties through colour management systems and desktops environments.

== Specification ==

The Configuration uses the JSON format to store data.

=== Format ===

The Configuration is stored in the well known JSON format inside a tree data structure. The key prefix contains "org"/"freedesktop"/"openicc".

Keys are usually grouped into sets either by namespaces like "configuration" or by JSON format arrays.

JSON keys are literal strings in ASCII. Values are literal strings in UTF-8. It is recommended to write floating point numbers as strings to avoid imprecisions during reading.

=== Keys ===

Keys can have a key prefix to handle key sets like flat data in the ICC meta tag. A prefix is upper letter [:alpha:] and a underscore '_'. The key name itself should be lower case and separated by underscore '_'. The string for the 'model' key with the 'EDID_' prefix would become "EDID_model".

The "prefix" key is optional and can contain a comma ',' separated list of prefixes for key names. A interpreter can then easily remove the prefix to search for common key names in the data base, while maintaining the origin. "EDID_model" can be resolved to "model" in absence of a explicit "model" key. Example "prefix"="EDID_,OSD_".

"icc_profile_hash" optionally contains the ICC hash value to specify a ICC profile.

"icc_profile_file" optionally contains the ICC profiles file name.

"creation_date" mandatory contains the date and time of entry creation
and should be updated on each change. Something human readable would be
great. But we can as well agree about an other format.

"expire_date" optionally contains data/time for showing a user a message
to update the profile with a new one.

"automatic_assignment" mandatory contains "1" for automatic generated
fallback style profiles in a local DB. "0" is to be used for explicit set user
selected profiles. This is useful to know which profiles should easily
be overridden.

Example:
 {
   "org": {
     "freedesktop": {
       "openicc": {
         "device": {
           "monitor": [
             { "prefix": "EDID_",
               "EDID_model": "LCD one",
               "icc_profile": "profile_name_from_edid.icc",
               "creation_date": "05-08-11T11:59:50Z",
               "expire_date": "05-08-12T11:59:50Z",
               "automatic_assigment": "1"
             },
             { "prefix": "EDID_",
               "EDID_model": "LCD two",
               "icc_profile": "profile_name_vendor.icc",
               "creation_date": "05-08-11T11:59:50Z",
               "expire_date": "05-08-12T11:59:50Z",
               "automatic_assigment": "0"
             }
           }
         }
       }
     }
   }
 }


=== Locations ===

File locations to write to are:

local: $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/color/openicc/ or ~/.local/share/color/openicc/

global: /etc/xdg/color/openicc/

Read from XDG_CONFIG_DIRS/color/openicc/ directory. The Configuration file ending is 'json'.

The Configuration JSON can be used as file or by a in memory string representation for exchange among supporting applications.

== References ==

1. [http://www.color.org International Color Consortium]

2. [http://www.json.org JSON]

3. meta tag - http://www.color.org/ICCSpecRevision_25-02-10_dictType.pdf

4. ISO 8601 - Data elements and interchange formats – Information interchange – Representation of dates and times

2010-2011 &copy; Kai-Uwe Behrmann



[[Oyranos|back --> Oyranos]] or [[Device_Settings|Device Settings]]

[[Category:Oyranos]]
[[Category:Standards]]