<h1>[[Oyranos]]</h1>


== Stable Versions ==

Oyranos is known to work on Linux, BSD, osX and Solaris. Windows will currently not work.

=== Sources ===

[http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=177017&package_id=203716 Download] from the SourceForge site.

[http://www.behrmann.name/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=34&Itemid=68 Elder Downloads] are available from the behrmann site.

==== Dependencies ====

Oyranos depends on following libraries and external applications:

* libxml2
* FLTK version <= 1.1.4 neede to build the GUI. You may configure FLTK with several options enabled:
    --enable-threads is needed for threads support (in ICC Examin)
    --enable-xft is ok for antialiased fonts
    --enable-debug is generally a good choice
    --enable-shared is sometimes a good choice for smaller executables
* Elektra, this is the configuration system used under linux.
Optionally:
* [[ICC Examin/Download|ICC Examin]] is the profile viewer of Oyranos' configuration GUI. It provides a view on profile internals and a gamut view. It uses littleCMS and Oyranos.
* Xcalib for loading a given VideoCardGammaTag from profile to a running XFree86/Xorg session (optionally)
* Cairo
* Compiz
* CUPS
* libraw


==== Compile Instructions ====

For building unpack the tgz file and type #configure; make; make install.
Optionally you can specifiy an other than the default prefix /opt/local by typing:

    configure --prefix=/what/you/like
    make
    make install       # (optionally)

    configure --help   # will show details
    make help          # shows the available targets

Detailed build instructions are as well included in the packages.

=== Binary Packages ===

http://www.oyranos.org/images/fedora-logo.png [https://admin.fedoraproject.org/pkgdb/acls/name/oyranos Fedora]

http://www.oyranos.org/images/ubuntu_logo.png [http://www.ubuntuupdates.org/oyranos Ubuntu]

==== openSUSE build server ====
'''''bekun''''' YUM repositories for:

http://www.oyranos.org/images/fedora-logo.png<br>
* 12
* 13

http://www.oyranos.org/images/mandriva-logo-opt.png<br>
* 10

http://www.oyranos.org/images/suse_logo.png<br>
* SLE_11
* 11.1
* 11.2
* 11.3
* Factory


After installing one of the above setup RPM's the  '''''bekun''''' repository is activated in yum.
For a full installation install the icc_examin package:
 yum install icc_examin
Yum should resolve all dependcies. The ''icc_examin-cinepaint'' package is for a more indepth colour space exploration inside [[CinePaint|CinéPaint]].

In case a missed libelektra.so.2 message is shown, as can happen on Fedora, try first the following command:
 yum erase elektra
and repeat the above ''icc_examin'' or ''icc_examin-cinepaint'' installation.


'''''bekun''''' repository plain overview:<br>
[http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/bekun/ bekun]
supported are Fedora, openSUSE and to some extent Mandriva.


=== Oyranos LiveCD ===
The Oyranos LiveCD is based on openSUSE and the preinstalled packages from home:bekun. It contains the nvidia binary graphics drivers. Download from [http://susegallery.com/a/8Kr6tw/oyranos suse gallery].

== Development Versions ==

[[Oyranos/git|Git]]: The actual development version can be obtained through git. Instructions on how to obtain the code and how to build, can be found on the Oyranos Wiki page [[Oyranos/git]]. There is as well a build script available for automated dependency checking, downloading and building.

[https://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=177017 Snapshots and release candidates] are available from the SourceForge site. They are released non regularily. The packages contain sources and all datas.


[[Oyranos|back -> Oyranos]]
[[Category:Oyranos]]