Git is set up on www.oyranos.org. To use git install the git-core package.

Here is a [https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oyranos-cms/icc-examin/master/icc_examin-build.sh '''download and build script'''] to automate the process, including a build of ICC Examin, CompICC (X Color Management spec based desktop colour server), kolor-manager (a KDE configuration panel entry), CinePaint (a X Color Management enabled version) and some requirements. The script accepts options for configure and will pass them unchanged. For some options and variables see a [https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oyranos-cms/icc-examin/master/icc_examin-build-local.sh '''local build script'''].

E.g. --prefix=~/.local  might be a good idea to avoid the otherwise required root rights for installation of a test build. For compicc one might add similiar --plugindir=$HOME/.compiz/plugins --icondir=$HOME/.local/share/icons --regdir=$HOME/.compiz/metadata .

Dependencies are listed in [https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oyranos-cms/oyranos/master/README '''README'''] for some major distributions.



For troubleshooting and some reference, below are the basic single steps. However the script will be most actual.

For the git version you need currently [http://www.markus-raab.org/ftp/elektra-0.7.0.tar.gz this Elektra version] 10:42, 29 Apr 2008 (CEST)

First check out libXcm, Oyranos and then libXcm tools:
 $ git clone git://github.com/oyranos-cms/libxcm
 $ git clone git://github.com/oyranos-cms/oyranos
 $ git clone git://github.com/oyranos-cms/xcm

Oyranos relies on some certain ICC profiles by default, which are not included in git. Take them from [https://sourceforge.net/projects/openicc/files/OpenICC-Profiles OpenICC-data package].

Building Oyranos:
 $ cd oyranos/
 $ mkdir build && cd build/
 $ cmake ..
 $ make
 $ make install

Keeping Oyranos up to date:
 $ git pull

Examining the history:
 $ git log -p


Some more projects:
 $ git clone git://compicc.git.sourceforge.net/gitroot/compicc/compicc
 $ git clone git://anongit.kde.org/kolor-manager.git
 $ git clone git://gitorious.org/cinepaint-ng/cinepaint-ng

ICC Examin git can be obtained without the above script like follows:
 $ git clone git://github.com/oyranos-cms/icc-examin

Alternative addresses for checking out over http can be found here:
[http://github.com/oyranos-cms http://Github.com/Oyranos-CMS] 

=== Links ===
* [http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/user-manual.html#git-quick-start git introduction]
* [http://cworth.org/hgbook-git/tour/ Carl Worth's git tour]
* [http://git.or.cz/ Homepage] and wiki
* [http://github.com/oyranos-cms gitweb] of Oyranos, XColorManagement(libXcm,xcm) and ICC Examin(iccexamin)

[[Oyranos|back -> Oyranos]]
[[Category:Oyranos]]