Even most questions are answered on the [http://www.oyranos.org Oyranos] site already, here is the FAQ.

If you have the impression an important question is missed, feel free to add it.


=== What is Oyranos? ===
The Oyranos project is a colour management system (CMS). It is intended to work in a comparable fashion like KCMS, ICM or ColourSync except it is published with sources and is available for various platforms.

=== What is the goal of Oyranos? ===
Oyranos shall help in making end to end colour management working for open source operating systems. Ideally that works for most users without intervention.

With colour management being a often complicated pattern, the need rises to easily understand what goes on behind the scenes. Doing this once is often hard enough. Having different colour settings in every application and service may easily multiply the work to reliable understand how colours get managed. Thus Oyranos is a call to collaborate between applications to make them all more attractive.

For instance all Oyranos conform applications should display colour content on the monitor in the same manner, equally if the user has set soft proofing on by default in the Oyranos configuration panel or not.

Oyranos provides colour management services for desktops, applications and services like KDE, Gnome, Scribus, CinePaint, Krita, Gimp, Inkscape, Gutenprint, UFraw, Cups, Xorg, Sane and so on.

=== Where comes the name Oyranos from? ===
Oyranos is the greek word of sky.

It was pointed out that ouranos is more adequate for english readers. Just as with the german Uranos and other variants it seems pretty good to stay with the name.

=== License(s) ===
Oyranos is licensed under [http://opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php new BSD]. It is possible that parts will be released under different licenses. But that is open. The goal is to not exclude anyone from using Oyranos. The ICC profiles are licensed, except a few, under [http://opensource.org/licenses/zlib-license.php zip/libpng] license.

=== Where can I get Oyranos? ===
Oyranos is officially published on [[Oyranos/Download]].

=== Where Can I find ICC Profiles ===
Some are already included in the package, like sRGB, ECI- and a Adobe RGB as well as Gray, CIE*Lab, CIE*XYZ, ITU-Lab and some press profiles like for FOGRA, SWOP, SNAP and GRACoL printing conditions. The used printing condition character sets are as well included. More profiles can be found on this [http://www.behrmann.name/index.php?option=com_weblinks&catid=73&Itemid=95 link collection]. They should be installed in the [[OpenIccDirectoryProposal|system paths]] to be seen by most applications.

=== Who is developing Oyranos? ===
Oyranos was started by [http://www.behrmann.name Kai-Uwe Behrmann]. Yiannis Belias has joined. More details can be read in the AUTHORS file in the sources. Still we are searching for [[#How_can_I_help_with_the_Oyranos_CMS.3F|help]].
Code contributions came from students through their [http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/OpenIcc/ColorManagementNearX Summer] of [http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code-2008-openicc/downloads/list Code] [http://freedesktop.org/wiki/OpenIccForGoogleSoC2008 projects] at [[OpenICC]]. OpenICC people help very much around organisation of GSoC.

=== How can I help with the Oyranos CMS? ===
You could help by testing, 
* reporting bugs or 
* providing according patches,
* doing translations,
* suggesting useful changes or
* proofreading, updating and extenting the documentation. 

Becoming part of the development team is easy.

We need people with fantasy for going possibly new paths, meticulousness for assuring quality, analytical, didactic and aesthetic skills and thinking around the corner or all together. Ideally Oyranos shall be invisible to most users and simply work for their colour devices. So if your have a question around Oyranos thats a good sign to start ask that.

See as well [[Oyranos#Development|here]].

A TODO list can be found [[Oyranos/FeatureWish|here]]. More project ideas can be found on the [http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/OpenIcc/GoogleSoC2009 OpenICC GSoC pages].

=== Which applications use Oyranos? ===
A list of Oyranos users is [http://www.oyranos.org/#audience here].

A list of Linux/BSD relevant colour managed applications can be found [http://www.oyranos.org/wiki/index.php?title=Applications here].

=== Can Oyranos replace other Colour management Systems? ===
This is not intentional. Each colour management system has its strengths not easily reachable by an other. If your application runs just on osX it is possibly best to stay with the advanced features of ColourSync. Is your intention to run your application on different platforms such as Windows, osX and the various unixes, Oyranos may be of much value, as it will provide a single API allowing real cross platform development. Oyranos tries to use as many as possible of the underlying colour management services, as long as it conforms to its cross platform behaviour. 

Naturally advanced features will be unlikely to get supported as they are not cross platform, and would have to been accessed directly.


[[Oyranos|back -> Oyranos]]
[[Category:Oyranos]]